As we said at the beginning of the day, object oriented programming is based on six basic principles
or pillars.
Inheritance, polymorphism, cohesion, abstraction, coupling, and encapsulation.
In this lecture, we are going to start explaining the concept of inheritance.
Just like Brian can inherit some attributes from his father, Kevin, such as I color in programming.
Inheritance is a process by which a child class can be created so that it inherits things from a parent
class sharing the same methods and attributes.
In addition to this, a child class can overwrite methods or attributes or even define new ones.
But we're going to see that later.
A child class can be created by simply passing the class we want to inherit from a parameter.
For example, if we have a class animal and then a class bird and we want bird to inherit the methods
and attributes of animal, we only have to pass the word animal in the parentheses of the declaration
bird.
And what do we want the inheritance for?
Since the child class inherits the attributes and methods of the parent, it can be very useful when
we have classes that resemble each other but have certain particularities.
In this case, if we are going to have a mammal class and an insect class in addition to the bird class,
it is likely that many of the methods of bird are repeated in the other classes, for example the born
or die or breathe methods.
So instead of defining a bunch of classes for each animal, we can take the common elements and create
an animal class that contains methods and attributes in common and have others inherit those elements,
thus respecting the dry philosophy, which is a programming mantra.
Dry, dry, which stands for Don't Repeat Yourself.
It consists of the philosophy of not repeating code unnecessarily, because the more duplicate code
there is, the more difficult it will be to modify and the easier it will be to create inconsistencies,
classes and inheritance help to avoid repeating code, making these abstractions and finding the common
denominator to define a class from which the others inherit.
It's a very complex but fundamental task in the world of programming.
So let's go over to Pie Chart to learn about inheritance firsthand.
So I believe the best way to learn about inheritance from scratch is to create two empty classes.
One will be animal colon and will add pass.
So it's pretty empty and the other one will be bird, which will receive animal in brackets.
This means it will inherit from animal, which is empty.
But this doesn't matter yet.
So we have our two classes and we said that bird will inherit from animal.
First, we'll learn how to verify if an inheritance has been created.
So let's print bird dot and look for bases, which is a property of bird that will tell us where this
class is inheriting from.
It'll be quite useful if this wasn't visible.
So if we execute this archive named Inheritance, we'll see that bird is a class that inherits from
the animal class.
So this gives us the answer.
On the other hand, if I print the subclasses property of animal, which is this one, it has brackets
at the end and I execute it.
It tells me the animal leaves its inheritance to bird, just that single class for now.
And if we had more classes inheriting from Animal, we'd have a list of all those classes.
Now comes the most surprising feature of inheritance.
So we'll create an animal, a method named born, which is characteristic of animals.
And of course, there will be self.
And the only task born will carry out is saying this animal has been born.
What a great time.
And so we have a method for animal.
Yet bird doesn't have a method.
So we'll create a bird instance.
Let's create Tweetie once again and say that it is a bird there.
Now I'll call Tweetie and type A dot to see its methods and properties.
Oh, wow.
Tweetie, which is a bird that is.
It belongs to a class with no methods.
Has the born method now which actually belongs to Animal?
Yes.
Tweetie has received that method through inheritance.
So we choose born, print it and it reads.
This animal has been born.
Tweetie could be born thanks to inheritance.
So if I created another class named mammals, reptiles, insects or fish which belonged to the animal,
all those animals would be able to be born, i.e. they would call that method without me creating it
for each class I had.
This is great.
As we adopt the dry philosophy, we don't repeat ourselves and if we have to modify the bond method,
we'll just change it here and it will be set up for all the classes that inherit it.
So now in animal we'll create some attributes besides the method.
So let's type def and double underscore to enter in it.
The first attribute which is mandatory will be self and we'll also add age and colour.
Then we add self doubt age which will be equal to age and self colour will be equal to colour.
So I repeat, this belongs to the animal class.
So since all this is created in this class and bird inherits from animal, tweety starts complaining.
So why so?
Because I haven't passed any parameter in brackets.
And it requires that I pass an age, say to and a color like yellow.
And now it stops complaining.
So if I print Tweetie through its color attribute and execute it, I'll have yellow.
I was able to execute its color despite the fact that the bird class doesn't have an assigned attribute.
So I think it's clear and we're ready to go on to the next lecture where we'll delve deeper into inheritance.
Besides inheriting methods and attributes, we can also modify them or extend them to each of our animals,
such as the birds.
So let's go to the next lecture.
This is getting exciting.